# Platform

Floating UI works on any platform that can run JavaScript, as
long as it has adequate measurement APIs for elements. Possible
platforms other than the DOM include React Native, Canvas/WebGL,
etc.

The library works largely with a `Rect{:.class}`:

```js
interface Rect {
  width: number;
  height: number;
  x: number;
  y: number;
}
```

This data can come from anywhere, and the library will perform
the right computations. `x{:.objectKey}` and `y{:.objectKey}`
represent the coordinates of the element relative to another one.

```js
import {computePosition} from '@floating-ui/core';

computePosition(referenceElement, floatingElement, {
  platform: {
    // ...
  },
});
```

## Methods

A `platform{:.objectKey}` is a plain object consisting of 3
required and 6 optional methods. These methods allow the platform
to interface with Floating UI's logic.

Each of these methods can be either async or sync. This enables
support of platforms whose measurement APIs are async, like React
Native.

## Required methods

### getElementRects

Takes in the elements and the positioning `strategy{:.objectKey}`
and returns the element `Rect{:.class}` objects.

```js
function getElementRects({reference, floating, strategy}) {
  return {
    reference: {width: 0, height: 0, x: 0, y: 0},
    floating: {width: 0, height: 0, x: 0, y: 0},
  };
}
```

#### reference

The `x{:.objectKey}` and `y{:.objectKey}` values of a reference
`Rect{:.class}` should be its coordinates relative to the
floating element's `offsetParent` element if required rather than
the viewport.

#### floating

Both `x{:.objectKey}` and `y{:.objectKey}` are not relevant
initially, so you can set these both of these to `0{:js}`.

### getDimensions

Returns the dimensions of an element.

```js
function getDimensions(element) {
  return {width: 0, height: 0};
}
```

### getClippingRect

Returns the `Rect{:.class}` (**relative to the viewport**) whose
outside bounds will clip the given element. For instance, the
viewport itself.

```js
function getClippingRect({element, boundary, rootBoundary}) {
  return {
    width: 0,
    height: 0,
    x: 0,
    y: 0,
  };
}
```

## Optional methods

Depending on the platform you're working with, these may or may
not be necessary.

### convertOffsetParentRelativeRectToViewportRelativeRect

This function will take a `Rect{:.class}` that is relative to a
given `offsetParent{:.param}` element and convert its
`x{:.objectKey}` and `y{:.objectKey}` values such that it is
instead relative to the viewport.

```js
function convertOffsetParentRelativeRectToViewportRelativeRect({
  rect,
  offsetParent,
  strategy,
}) {
  return rect;
}
```

### getOffsetParent

Returns the `offsetParent` of a given element. The following four
properties are what is accessed on an `offsetParent`.

```js
function getOffsetParent(element) {
  return {
    clientWidth: 0,
    clientHeight: 0,
    clientLeft: 0,
    clientTop: 0,
  };
}
```

### getDocumentElement

Returns the document element.

```js
function getDocumentElement(element) {
  return {};
}
```

### getClientRects

Returns an array of `ClientRect{:.class}`s.

```js
function getClientRects(element) {
  return [];
}
```

### isElement

Determines if the current value is an element.

```js
function isElement(value) {
  return true;
}
```

### isRTL

Determines if an element is in RTL layout.

```js
function isRTL(element) {
  return false;
}
```

## Usage

All these methods are passed to `platform{:.objectKey}`:

```js
import {computePosition} from '@floating-ui/core';

computePosition(referenceEl, floatingEl, {
  platform: {
    // Required
    getElementRects,
    getDimensions,
    getClippingRect,

    // Optional
    convertOffsetParentRelativeRectToViewportRelativeRect,
    getOffsetParent,
    getDocumentElement,
    getClientRects,
    isElement,
    isRTL,
  },
});
```
